# Table-level Schema Linking by Model Generation

LLMs excel at generating SQL queries related to a given question but are less effective at determining whether specific columns are relevant to the query. This code performs **table-level schema linking** by extracting table names from the SQLs generated by the model.

In the current setup, prompts are generated without any schema compression, which can lead to some prompts exceeding the context length limit.

There are two approaches for performing such schema linking:

1. **Generation and Parsing**  
   The large schema is split into smaller chunks, and for each chunk, the model is prompted to generate SQL queries based on the input question. By parsing the table and column names used in the generated SQLs and merging them, a reduced, query-relevant schema is obtained.

2. **Log-based Parsing**  
   From previous experiments, we have access to SQL logs (e.g., `methods/ReFoRCE/output/o3-snow-log`). By parsing these logs, we can extract the tables used across examples to build a linked schema.

While **Method 1** is more efficient, it generally achieves lower recall compared to **Method 2**.

If the reduced schema is still large, we can pferform a sencond run on large prompts.

We release a Method 1 result generated using **GPT-4o** at `data/parsed_json_snow_gpt-4o.json` and a Method 2 result generated using logs from **GPT-4o**, **o3** and **o4-mini** at `data/parsed_logs_snow_4o+o3+o4-mini.json`.

Despite being a simple baseline, Method 1 with **GPT-4o** achieves perfect table-level recall on **525 out of 547 examples**, yielding a recall rate of $P(tb\\_recall == 1) = 525 / 547 = 95.98\%$.

With more diverse SQLs generated from different models, Method 2 achieved $P(tb\\_recall == 1) = 543 / 547 = 99.27\%$.

Despite achieving high recall, there is limited improvement in accuracy, as LLMs like o3 already possess table-level schema linking capabilities. The main advantage of the gen_sl method lies in its ability to include more relevant information in prompts, reduce LLM calling costs, and narrow down the set of target tables for value retrieval.

The script for running on linked json files by gen_sl can be found at `methods/ReFoRCE/scripts/run_main_gen_sl.sh`:
```
bash scripts/run_main_gen_sl.sh --task snow --model o3 --azure --linked_json_pth ../../data/parsed_logs_snow_4o+o3+o4-mini.json
```

## Setup

In `methods/ReFoRCE` folder, run:
```bash
python spider_agent_setup_snow.py --example_folder examples_snow_sl
python reconstruct_data.py --example_folder examples_snow_sl --add_description --add_sample_rows --rm_digits
```

## Schema Linking by Parsing Generated JSON

Generate prompts by splits:
```bash
python mk_prompt_spider2.py \
  --db_path ../../ReFoRCE/examples_snow_sl \
  --task snow \
  --output_path spider2snow_input.json \
  --tokenizer_name Qwen/Qwen2.5-Coder-1.5B-Instruct \
  --snow_json_path ~/Spider2/spider2-snow/spider2-snow.jsonl \
  --threshold 0
```
For running only on large prompts, set a threshold.

Inference:
```bash
export AZURE_ENDPOINT=YOUR_AZURE_ENDPOINT
export AZURE_OPENAI_KEY=YOUR_AZURE_API_KEY
python infer_api.py \
  --deployment_name gpt-4o \
  --api_version 2024-05-01-preview
```

Parse from generated json:
```bash
python parse_json.py \
  --pred_path spider2snow_output.json \
  --gold_path ~/Spider2/methods/gold-tables/spider2-snow-gold-tables.jsonl \
  --snow_json_path ~/Spider2/spider2-snow/spider2-snow.jsonl \
  --db_path ../../ReFoRCE/examples_snow_sl \
  --output_path ../../../data/parsed_json_snow.json
```

## Schema Linking by Parsing Logs

Parse from generation logs:
```bash
python parse_logs.py \
  --ce_paths ~/reforce/methods/ReFoRCE/output/o3-snow-log ~/reforce/methods/ReFoRCE/output/o4-mini-snow-log ~/reforce/methods/ReFoRCE/output/gpt-4o-snow-log \
  --gold_path ~/Spider2/methods/gold-tables/spider2-snow-gold-tables.jsonl \
  --snow_json_path ~/Spider2/spider2-snow/spider2-snow.jsonl \
  --db_path ../../ReFoRCE/examples_snow_sl \
  --output_path ../../../data/parsed_logs_snow.json
```
Replace ce_paths with your log paths. Logs with column exploration tends to have a higher recall.

## Get Reduced Prompts

In `methods/ReFoRCE` folder, run:
```bash
python schema_linking.py --db_path examples_snow_sl --linking_method gen --linked_json_pth ../../data/parsed_json_snow_gpt-4o.json --threshold 0 
```